there's a small country in europe called
belarus
right now the official opposition the
party that has a
chance to depose and replace a dictator
a dictator has ruled for 26 years
comes straight out of youtube this is
not the first
youtuber to transform the world of
electoral parliamentary politics and
it's not
going to be the last
this is august 8th 2020 and we're
passing a really interesting milestone
in terms of the whole world waking up to
realize
the political potential of youtube the
political potential
of video and audio being shared over
social media
if some other website rises up to
compete with or replace
youtube there's an election being
contested
in the tiny country of belarus
population
10 million right now
and the official opposition so to speak
is a phenomenon entirely created by
youtube that's risen up to challenge
what most people regard as a kind of
dictatorship that has been in power in
belarus
for 26 years there was a man who started
making youtube videos
complaining that the government was
corrupt again youtube isn't special i'm
sure these videos were also
shared on facebook or what have you he
was himself
formerly a bank manager and when it
became clear
that he wasn't just content to criticize
the government and when he was gaining
more and more followers and more and
more
viewers for his critique of what was
wrong in the politics of belarus
when it became clear that he was in fact
going to nominate himself
to stand for election the government
went through the records of what he'd
done in his job
as a bank manager and they found some
pretax to
put him in prison i wasn't born
yesterday
i don't presume that he's innocent um
it's malicious prosecution either way of
course
he was put in prison to stop him
participating in the elections and to
stop him from uh
chastising the government however
it's quite possible that anyone who's
been a bank manager for a few years
at some point or another has done
something wrong or that there's some
paper trail for
that can get them put imprisoned so he's
in prison right now
and his wife is standing in his place
his wife
is quite good-looking and quite
well-spoken
i have not studied any of the languages
concerned but it seems to me i'm just
listening
to the clips of the two of them and
seeing the english translation
on screen it seems to me that mainly
she's a better candidate
uh for president of belarus and she's
delivering the same message
with a great deal of charisma and a palm
so this is a case
where real politics
right right i'm gonna let me word this
carefully
it would be so easy for me to say this
is a case where
social media and youtube intersect with
and derail the world of real politics
and that's not what i want to say at all
what i want to say is this i want to say
that we have been
kidding ourselves to think that youtube
and real politics are two different
things they're not
this is not the first youtuber
to transform the world of electoral
parliamentary politics
and it's not going to be the last
do you guys remember when sargon of
akkad
made the leap from youtube political
commentator
to actually running in elections i
completely despise
sargon of akkad no sympathy for him i'm
not a fan of his videos
nevertheless when that happened
we can say hey i'm not sure if this is
the first guy to make the transition
from youtuber
to standing for election front it's not
going to be the last
right and why it's because this medium
has unbelievable wonderful advantages
over so-called real world politics this
whole ego trip we're on
in the modern western decadent world
that were somehow superior to other
cultures because back in athens they
came up with this thing called democracy
really really think it through really
think through how
crummy and limited the process of
receiving
and debating and discussing and deciding
on ideas was
back in athens all right you get
together a couple hundred people
in a room at the bool people give these
very passionate over-the-top
lectures demagoguery all our vocabulary
in the english language related to
politics derives from this brief period
in athens
the origin of these ideas and these
words in english even demagogue and so
on right
people would practice rhetoric can read
aristotle's book on rhetoric etc you
know
and uh then it's like okay you've had
five minutes to think about it you heard
this side of the debate you heard that
side of the debate
now you guys make a decision and you
decide if we're gonna go to war or not
you decide if these couple hundred
people are gonna be slaughtered or not
you decide if socrates is guilty or
innocent if you're going to kill him or
not
terrible finding decisions with
long-term consequences were made
with no research no reflection no
ability
of the people in that crowd to fact
check
something by googling it you know what i
mean oh you claim that the sewage system
is working just fine why just googled it
and this
this is how much particulate matter is
in the river and this is you know what i
mean like
there are levels to this democratic
participation
we have so many advantages
gathering in this assembly right now
with you and you and you
in your kitchen in your living room even
if you're washing the dishes while
you're doing it
that you can hear this and you can chit
chat with your husband or wife
you can google you can fact check you
can compare another
opinion and if you scroll down the um
if you scroll down the list of videos of
this guy uh victor i'm sorry i'm not
going to attempt to
pronounce his last name okay victor
babarka
you know the numbers on these videos are
not huge so you know 30
000 views 50 000 views 80 000 views
right
but the number of people who have
participated
in any of the important decisions in our
western democracies
at any stage of our history is also
you know not very huge i mean
how many people really participated in
the decision to
make an amendment the u.s constitution
to make alcohol illegal this
is considered one of the great
misadventures in american history
if you look through that well there was
this tiny minority of
actually women activists who wanted to
make alcohol illegal and they got the
legislation through and so on how many
people participated in the decision to
make seat belts mandatory on and on it
goes
how many people participate in the
decision to put warning labels on
cigarettes
how many people participate in the
decision for the government to support
the nicotine industry with subsidies
whatever issue it is if you actually
try to evaluate how many people not how
many people
could participate how many people
actually do
participate it may be very worrying it's
not what youtube
can be it's what youtube really is in
our lives for me
and you and you and you and the next
step is doing
exactly what they already did in belarus
which is taking those discussions taking
this fundamentally
participatory and thoughtful and
transparent
model of people engaging one another in
debate and sharing information and so on
and take the next step to connect it to
the formal democratic
process if you think this is trash if
you think what we're doing right now you
and i
face to face i know if you think if you
think this conversation we're having is
worthless have you ever actually been to
a uh political convention it's awful you
never get this much honesty
you never get this much exchange of
views i mean
you get a couple hundred people
organized in
theater seating like imitating a
parliament
right people stand up and they read very
kind of procedurally defined statements
and then votes are taken
it's a very phony very procedural
very robotic very dry sort of thing and
most people go to those conferences will
tell you after they've been to a few of
them
they just show up for the party
afterwards or something they show up
beforehand and afterwards they don't
want to actually participate in the
proceedings
because it's a complete waste of time uh
we are debating the amendment
to the committee report and that
amendment is to
uh swap uh six of the deal
is to um uh
the amendment is to take six different
delegates from to recognize six
different delegates from
east bay from what the committee report
set
could someone please run a mic to the
comrade and the jean jacket
of which there are many
most people aren't aware of how great
this is
this technology we all take for granted
because they don't have that contrast
clearly in mind of what it's really like
to go out and try to participate in
party conferences
party congresses what it's like to
actually give a deposition at city hall
what it's like to try to get your voice
heard in provincial parliament in
federal parliament in congress whatever
the system is
in of government where you happen to
live try go out and try
get disappointed get pissed off get your
heart broken come back to youtube and
appreciate this wonderful opportunity
we've got
all right it's really wonderful it's i
will never say to you
youtube's a good way to make money it's
not it's terrible okay
it's not it's a wonderful way to change
the world
it's a wonderful way to improve yourself
as a human being as an intellectual
it's a wonderful way to inspire yourself
and motivate yourself
to read more books you get questions
from your audience you ask your audience
questions
you know again sometimes i recommend a
book to people in the audience and say
hey i'm reading this book i recommend it
to you also
and then i get email from people that
they've finished the book i'm still only
on chapter six
like oh i gotta spend more time reading
there's a really
positive galvanizing effect on my life
that way can have that effect on your
life also we're gonna take a hand
count right now uh and hopefully this
online voting system will work soon uh
when
a counter has gone around and confirmed
like nodded at you or
the delegate who brought clickers uh you
can uh lower
your hand but only when
the person who's like counting has like
verbally
or uh confirmed with their body language
that they've counted your vote i'm
rising to speak against this
uh amendment to the rules as it would
inhibit the inherent the democracy that
is inherent to our organization
if you look at it most of the time that
has been wasted
in this body was not wasted on debate it
was
wasted in vote after vote after vote and
voting on whether we're going to vote on
voting
the reality of participation in
democracy
i'll just say you know i engaged in
debates
with buddhists for like 10 years on the
internet
and a lot of these people had really
really strong
opinions about the history of buddhism
but then sooner or later would come up
have you ever been to a buddhist temple
like have you ever been to one just once
whether in cambodia or japan or
like in england like anywhere it would
always be revealed that these people who
had you know the the deepest convictions
about this religion
actually had developed these convictions
totally just reading articles on
wikipedia just sitting alone at their
computer it's like well
you know maybe if you actually
participated in a buddhist community
you'd see things a little bit
differently i don't mean not necessarily
better
for better and worse you'd see things
differently you know
if you think about politics entirely as
sort of abstract set of principles on
the chalkboard that's one thing
when you start actually attending party
conferences if you actually try to
participate in debates
at city hall at your provincial
government
whatever kind of government you have in
the country you're living in whether
at the level of a party that's an
opposition or
the government as it's sitting and
making decisions debates and things
you will be shocked and dismayed at how
hollow and meaningless the process is
how hard it is
to get anyone to speak to you honestly
or listen to you honestly
or to deal with the real substance of
whatever the problem is at your time
it's very disheartening you might even
walk away
feeling my time would have been better
spent
giving a deposition to youtube or
watching someone else's video on youtube
discussing this kind of thing
the difference isn't just quantitative
it's also qualitative right 50 000
people
who are spread out all over the place
and can sit
and think about this and talk about it
with a friend and can fact check
can look things up can google some of
the claims you're making maybe you're
telling the truth maybe you're lying
maybe there's some inaccuracies
in your political claims they can look
up another youtube video
and hear a contrasting perspective
qualitatively
this is profoundly better than what they
had going on in athens at the penins
at the bull it may be difficult to
appreciate just how special what we've
got going on here on youtube is
i don't know why you know why you know
why because it's cheap
maybe we just take youtube for granted
because it's so cheap
and it's so easy whereas paying
two hundred dollars to attend a party
congress or a party conference
and then having to drive there and then
spending at least a hundred dollars on a
hotel room
or stay in an airbnb and then you stay
in the hotel room and then you go
then you get to sit in this theatrical
seating you get to sit in silence
and listen to these lectures
and you never get this level of honesty
never get kind of face to face
meaningful interaction with everyone and
you know whatever you hold your hand to
vote at different times whatever the
voting system is
you vote on resolutions for your party
you vote on this kind of crap
you have this highly procedural highly
unnatural
totally dissatisfactory you know
ostentatiously rational but really
completely irrational
ritual for democratic participation
you know what maybe we still value that
just because it's
expensive it's difficult to do and we
assume
for those reasons that it's something
much more valuable than what we've
already got
going on here on youtube i think what i
want to emphasize
about youtube is not that it's
a substitute for real political
discussion real political organization
it's that this is real political
discussion
all that you or i or anyone needs to do
is take that next step to plug it into
the democratic process and start getting
real
political outcomes and the threshold for
participation
has become lower and lower and lower i
remember
just how much of a sacrifice it was i
was
flat broke and busy and going to
university classes to scrape together
the money
to buy a train ticket to go and attend a
green party conference the green party
of canada
and even to pay to attend it and so on
a lot of money went into political
organization and even the lowest
and humblest levels and these parties
the green party included but even big
parties the liberal party the
conservative party
they rely on donations primarily from
elderly retired people to be able to do
anything to be able to even just
print pamphlets right the bar to entry
is higher the cost of participation is
higher
and this makes them fundamentally
unresponsive to the problems of their
day and much more responsive to
whatever their sources of funding are
and what we're doing here on youtube
doesn't require any of that at all
all we need to do is make that effort
to start taking this opportunity
seriously
um
[Music]
the dutch